The number of souls in this kingdom being usually reckoned one million 
and a half, of these I calculate there may be about two hundred thousand 
couple whose wives are breeders; from which number I subtract thirty 
thousand couple, who are able to maintain their own children, (although 
I apprehend there cannot be so many, under the present distresses of 
the kingdom) but this being granted, there will remain an hundred and 
seventy thousand breeders. I again subtract fifty thousand, for those 
women who miscarry, or whose children die by accident or disease within 
the year. There only remain an hundred and twenty thousand children of 
poor parents annually born. The question therefore is, How this number 
shall be reared, and provided for? which, as I have already said, under 
the present situation of affairs, is utterly impossible by all the 
methods hitherto proposed. For we can neither employ them in handicraft 
or agriculture; we neither build houses, (I mean in the country) nor 
cultivate land: they can very seldom pick up a livelihood by stealing 
till they arrive at six years old; except where they are of towardly 
parts, although I confess they learn the rudiments much earlier; 
during which time they can however be properly looked upon only as 
probationers: As I have been informed by a principal gentleman in the 
county of Cavan, who protested to me, that he never knew above one or 
two instances under the age of six, even in a part of the kingdom so 
renowned for the quickest proficiency in that art.